= Awesome Qt
:icons: font
:toc: preamble
:toc-title:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:AwesomeQt: https://insideqt.github.io/awesome-qt

:MIT: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT license.]

A curated list of links to awesome Qt-related libraries, tools, and other
resources published under Free Software/Open Source licenses.

ifdef::env-github[]
NOTE: {AwesomeQt}[See this document in Github Pages] for a version with improved
legibility.
endif::[]

Don't forget to check http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qtmodules.html[the list of essential
and add-on modules from the Qt project] first! Upcoming modules might be in
`qt-labs` or `playground` in http://code.qt.io/[code.qt.io]. And remember that
there is https://github.com/fffaraz/awesome-cpp[Awesome C/C++] for more projects
that don't use Qt.



== Other registries / package managers

There are other projects that aim to provide not only an entry point to find
other Qt libraries, but also a tool to download and configure them.

http://inqlude.org/::
A large list of Qt libraries, categorized by maturity level and license. Is the
oldest and largest archive of Qt projects. A project from the
http://www.kde.org[KDE] community.

https://www.qpm.io/::
A package manager for Qt, from the http://www.cutehacks.com/[Cutehacks]
developers. Is the youngest project, but features the best command line tool to
install packages.

http://www.qt-pods.org/::
Inspired by the Cocoa pods project, a package manager with even a GUI interface
based on git submodules.



== Libraries


=== Databases

https://github.com/KDAB/sqlate::
Compile-time checked type-safe access to SQL databases using C++ templates.
Allows you to get rid of string-based SQL queries in your Qt application.


=== Event loop dispatchers

https://github.com/sjinks/qt_eventdispatcher_epoll::
epoll-based event dispatcher

https://github.com/connectedtable/qeventdispatcher_epoll::
epoll event dispatcher

https://github.com/sjinks/qt_eventdispatcher_libevent::
libevent-based event dispatcher

https://github.com/sjinks/qt_eventdispatcher_libev::
libev-based event dispatcher

https://github.com/svalaskevicius/qt-event-dispatcher-libuv::
libuv event dispatcher


=== File formats

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/karchive/html/::
Provides classes for easy reading, creation and manipulation of "archive"
formats like ZIP and TAR. It also provides transparent compression and
decompression of data, like the GZip format, via a subclass of QIODevice.

https://github.com/flavio/qjson::
Library that maps JSON data to QVariant objects. Supports Qt 4.

https://github.com/gaudecker/qt-json::
A simple class for parsing JSON data into a QVariant hierarchy and vice versa.
Supports Qt 4.


=== Gaming

https://github.com/Bacon2D/Bacon2D::
Framework to ease 2D game development, providing ready-to-use QML elements
representing basic game entities needed by most of games. Starting with the
top-level Game container, which provides a game loop and Scene management, all
the way down to entities with Box2D physics and parallax layers with infinite
scrolling.

https://github.com/qml-box2d/qml-box2d::
Box2D plugin for QML. The goal is to expose the functionality of Box2D as QML
components, in order to make it easy to write physics based games in QML.

http://v-play.net/::
Allows easy cross-platform mobile game development for all major platforms
including iOS, Android, BlackBerry.


=== Graphics

http://www.kdab.com/kd-reports/::
Lets you easily create printable reports by providing all of the necessary
features for a variety of applications. Reports can be created programmatically,
using an easy to use C++ API, or they can be data-driven, creating reports from
XML or SQL data sources complete with watermarks, headers and footers. Reports
can be previewed manually, sent directly to a printer, or saved as PDF files.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kimageformats/html/::
Provides additional image format plugins for QtGui. Read support for: Gimp
(xcf), OpenEXR (exr), Photoshop documents (psd), Sun Raster (ras). Write support
for: Encapsulated PostScript (eps), Personal Computer Exchange (pcx), SGI images
(rgb, rgba, sgi, bw), Softimage PIC (pic), Targa (tga), XView (xv).

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kplotting/html/::
A lightweight and easy to use plot widget.
// TODO: Original description was pretty bad. I think this is the best I can say
// right now, but help improving this is more than welcome.

https://github.com/gamecreature/QtAwesome::
Library for using http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/[Font Awesome] or
other icon sets based on font files.

http://qwt.sourceforge.net/::
Qt Widgets for Technical Applications. Contains GUI Components and utility
classes which are primarily useful for programs with a technical background.
Beside a framework for 2D plots it provides scales, sliders, dials, compasses,
thermometers, wheels and knobs to control or display values, arrays, or ranges
of type double.


=== Hardware detection and interaction

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/bluez-qt/html/::
BluezQt is a library for communication with the BlueZ system and session
daemons.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/solid/html/::
A device integration framework. It provides a way of querying and
interacting with hardware independently of the underlying operating system.
It provides the following features for application developers: Hardware
Discovery, Power Management, and Network Management.


=== Inter process communication


=== Multimedia

http://www.qtav.org/::
QtAV is a multimedia playback library based on Qt and FFmpeg. Supports Android,
iOS and desktops.

https://vlc-qt.tano.si/::
Contains core classes for main media playback and some GUI classes for faster
media player developement.

=== Network protocols and web services

http://communi.github.io/::
A cross-platform IRC framework. Provides a set of tools for enabling IRC
connectivity in Qt-based C++ and QML applications.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kdnssd/html/::
Library for handling the DNS-based Service Discovery Protocol (DNS-SD), the
layer of Zeroconf that allows network services, such as printers, to be
discovered without any user intervention or centralized infrastructure.

https://github.com/wiedi/libmaia::
XML-RPC library.

https://github.com/Cutehacks/qml-pusher:
QML bindings for the Pusher.com service.

https://github.com/qxmpp-project/qxmpp:
XMPP client and server library. QXmpp strives to be as easy to use as possible:
the underlying TCP socket, the core XMPP RFCs (RFC3920 and RFC3921) and XMPP
extensions have been nicely encapsulated into classes. QXmpp comes with full API
documentation, automatic tests and many examples.


=== Other programming languages

https://github.com/seanchas116/libqmlbind::
A C library for easily creating QML bindings for other languages by exporting
objects to QML. In use in `ruby-qml`.

https://github.com/trollixx/node.qml::
Node.js compatibility layer to QML applications. Potentially, QML applications
should be able to use majority of Node.js libraries.

http://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/::
A set of Python 2 and Python 3 bindings for Qt and runs on all platforms
supported by Qt including Windows, OS X and Linux. PyQt5 supports Qt 5.

http://thp.io/2011/pyotherside/::
Asynchronous Python 3 Bindings for Qt 5. This is a QML Plugin that provides
access to a Python 3 interpreter from QML.

https://wiki.qt.io/Category:LanguageBindings::PySide::
Provides LGPL-licensed Python bindings for Qt. It also includes a complete
toolchain for rapidly generating bindings for any Qt-based C++ class
hierarchy.

http://sourceforge.net/projects/pythonqt/::
Embeds Python in a Qt application, making classes based in `QObject` accessible
to the scripted language language.

https://github.com/svalaskevicius/qtjs-generator::
Qt API bindings generator for Node.js. Exposes the Qt API to JavaScript, running
in an integrated event loop inside Node.js.

http://seanchas116.github.io/ruby-qml/::
Bindings between Ruby and QML. Enables you to write Qt Quick GUIs in Ruby.

https://github.com/pauldotknopf/Qml.Net:: A cross-platform integration of Qml/QtQuick for .NET Core/.NET Framework/Mono. It is a binding that brings .NET types into JavaScript with full interoperability.


=== Threading and asynchronous programming

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/threadweaver/html/::
Helper for multithreaded programming. It uses a job-based interface to queue
tasks and execute them in an efficient way. You simply divide the workload into
jobs, state the dependencies between the jobs and ThreadWeaver will work out the
most efficient way of dividing the work between threads within a set of resource
limits.


=== User Interface

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kguiaddons/html/::
Utilities for graphical user interfaces in the areas of colors, fonts, text,
images, keyboard input.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kitemmodels/html/::
A set of extra item models for the model-view framework.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kitemviews/html/::
Includes a set of views, which can be used with item models. It includes views
for categorizing lists and to add search filters to flat and hierarchical lists.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kwidgetsaddons/html/::
Action classes that can be added to toolbars or menus, a wide range of widgets
for selecting characters, fonts, colors, actions, dates and times, or MIME
types, as well as platform-aware dialogs for configuration pages, message boxes,
and password requests.

https://github.com/mikemcquaid/Qocoa::
Wrappers for OS X Cocoa widgets. {MIT}

https://github.com/shadone/qtmacgoodies::
Additional widgets/objects to make applications look more native on Mac OS X,
like `MacPreferencesWindow`, `MacStandardIcon` or `MacWindow`.

https://github.com/cybercatalyst/qtsystemtrayiconmac::
Extended QSystemTrayIcon for Mac OS X.


=== Web frameworks

http://cutelyst.org/::
MVC web framework inspired in Perl's Catalyst.

https://github.com/jlaine/qdjango/::
QDjango is a web framework written in C++ and built on top of the Qt library.
Where possible it tries to follow django's API, hence its name.

http://www.treefrogframework.org/::
High-speed and full-stack web application framework based on C++ and Qt, which
supports HTTP and WebSocket protocol. Web applications can run faster than that
of lightweight programming language. In application development, it provides an
O/R mapping system and template system on an MVC architecture, aims to achieve
high productivity through the policy of convention over configuration.

https://github.com/vinipsmaker/tufao::
Tufão is a web framework for C++ that makes use of Qt's object communication
system (signals & slots).


=== Miscellany

https://github.com/sergey-shambir/breakpad-qt::
Cross-platform crash handler, implemented as wrapper around google-breakpad.

https://github.com/dschmidt/libcrashreporter-qt::
Provides an easy integration of Google Breakpad crash reporting into a Qt
application.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kconfig/html/::
Provides an advanced configuration system. The core provides access to the
files, with a code generation system to have type safe access to the
configuration, which features cascading files (global versus local), shell
expansion, and locking down options. The GUI provides a way to hook widgets to
the configuration so that they are automatically initialized from the
configuration and automatically propagate their changes to their respective
configuration files.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kcoreaddons/html/::
Support classes for manipulating mime types, autosaving files, creating backup
files, generating random sequences, performing text manipulations such as macro
replacement, accessing user information and more.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/ki18n/html/::
Provides functionality for internationalizing user interface text in
applications, based on the GNU Gettext translation system. It wraps the standard
Gettext functionality, so that the programmers and translators can use the
familiar Gettext tools and workflows. KI18n provides additional functionality:
argument capturing, customizable markup, and translation scripting.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/kidletime/html/::
Reports information on idle time. It is useful not only for finding out about
the current idle time of the PC, but also for getting notified upon idle time
events, such as custom timeouts, or user activity

https://github.com/Roxee/qt-roxeemegaup/::
Wrapper around Sparkle and WinSparkle.

https://github.com/Roxee/qt-roxeeplatipus::
A collection of helpers and additional functionalities for Qt (media key
support, OS X remote control, fullscreen native window hack).

https://github.com/Roxee/qt-roxeesinapp::
An up to date QtSingleApplication fork.

https://github.com/VerbalExpressions/QtVerbalExpressions::
Regular Expressions made easy. Match and replace in strings with an easy to use
API.

http://api.kde.org/frameworks-api/frameworks5-apidocs/sonnet/html/::
Plugin-based spell checking library for Qt-based applications. It supports
several different plugins, including HSpell, Enchant, ASpell and HUNSPELL. It
also supports automated language detection, based on a combination of different
algorithms.


== Tools

https://github.com/sletta/dqml::
A simple live coding environment for QML. It will track the directory where a
QML file is located and continuously update the view where it is located.
Supports pushing files to a remote system which will reload the received files.

https://github.com/KDAB/GammaRay::
GammaRay is a tool to poke around in a Qt-application and also to manipulate the
application to some extent.

https://github.com/Pelagicore/qmllive::
A live coding environment for QML. Allows to reload your QML view when a file in
your project changes. This can be done on the same device using the QmlLiveBench
or on a remote device using the QmlLiveRuntime.

https://github.com/robertknight/Qt-Inspector::
Utility to browse the Qt object tree of a running Qt application and edit object
properties on the fly



== Off topic

NOTE: Stuff that might not integrate at all with Qt's types, API, event loop,
etc., but still an application built with Qt can leverage it well enough because
it is cross platform native code that fulfills a common use case of the typical
Qt applications.

https://github.com/Mendeley/breakpad::
This is a fork of Google Breakpad, a multi-platform crash reporting system,
which is used by Mendeley Desktop under Windows, Mac and Linux.

https://github.com/Mendeley/Update-Installer::
Small cross-platform software update installer.
